doc: publishing and subscribing with Actions (#373)
lightbend/akkaserverless-java-sdk: docs/src/modules/java/pages/actions-publishing-subscribing.adoc

<2> The protobuf option (akkaserverless.service) is specific to code-generation as provided by the Akka Serverless Maven plugin. This annotation indicates to the code-generation that an Action must be generated.
<3> The `Increase` method receives the event `ValueIncreased` and returns the transformed type `Increased`. 
<4> The `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.in` annotation indicates that events from the entity type `counter` should be delivered to this method (when the type is `ValueIncreased`).
<5> The `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.out` annotation indicates that the returned value from this method should be published to the topic called `counter-events`.

The class `CounterJournalToTopicAction` gets generated for us based on the proto file defined above.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterJournalToTopicAction.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-counter/src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterJournalToTopicAction.java[tag=counter-topic]
----
<1> We convert the incoming domain event `CounterDomain.ValueIncreased` to the outgoing topic API `CounterTopicApi.Increased`.
<2> We use the converted object to reply.

> 

Reviewer: would be good with a sentence that clarifies that it is the message in the `reply`  that will be published to the topic (when using eventing.out)

Reviewer: ok, it's mentioned in the callouts above, but that is slightly wrong in saying returned value

> eventing.out annotation indicates that the returned value from this method should be published to the topic

Reviewer: could just repeat it here "<2> We use the converted object as the reply, which will be published to the topic"

Author: yep, I will adapt

Author: Done in 2322358

== Receiving messages from an external Topic

In the example above, we consumed Protobuf messages from a topic that we control ourselves. When consuming an external topic, it's very likely that the message format is not under your control and is not known by Akka Serverless. In such case, the Action definition should receive Protobuf's type `Any` and you must take care of the serialization yourself. See xref:java:serialization.adoc[Handling Serialization] for more information on how to deal with other serialization formats.

== Subscribing and acting upon

Another possible usage for Actions is to consume events and act upon. 

For example, you may consume events from one entity or from a topic, transform to commands and send to an another entity or an external system. This is similar to the usage explained in xref:actions-as-controller.adoc[Actions as Controller], except that the Action is driven by the flow of incoming events instead of external user requests.

For that purpose, it's enough to add the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.in` and omit the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.out`.

== Accessing the Entity ID

> For many use cases, a subscriber to an event log will trigger other services and needs to pass the entity ID to the receiver. The events of an Event Sourced entity, by design, do not include the entity ID, but it is made available to the subscriber via the CloudEvent metadata field `subject`, for example via the `eventSubject` in the  link:{attachmentsdir}/api/com/akkaserverless/javasdk/action/ActionContext.html[`ActionContext`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. 

Reviewer 2: Should we skip mentioning "cloud event" here since there is no more information about what that is here, and just say:
```suggestion
For many use cases, a subscriber to an event log will trigger other services and needs to pass the entity ID to the receiver. The events of an Event Sourced entity, by design, do not include the entity ID, but it is made available to the subscriber via the metadata field `subject`, accessible through `eventSubject` in the  link:{attachmentsdir}/api/com/akkaserverless/javasdk/action/ActionContext.html[`ActionContext`{tab-icon}, window="new"]. 
```

or include that partial somewhere here?

You can access the link:{attachmentsdir}/api/com/akkaserverless/javasdk/action/ActionContext.html[`ActionContext`{tab-icon}, window="new"] through method `actionContext()`.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterJournalToTopicAction.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-counter/src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterJournalToTopicAction.java[tag=counter-topic-event-subject]
----

== Ignoring events

> When consuming events, each event must be matched by a Protobuf service method. In case your component is interested only in certain events, you may declare a method to receive all events that are not received by the other methods.

Reviewer 2: "If all an event type is not handled the topic will be stuck and not progress" or some other explanation of what happens if this is missing?

Author: ```suggestion
When consuming events, each event must be matched by a Protobuf service method. In case your component is only interested in certain events, you may declare a method to receive all events that are not received by the other methods. If an event type is not handled, the Action will fail. Actions are designed to restart, but since the handler is missing, it will fail again. Therefore, it's important to define a such catch-all method in case you want to discard some events.
```

Author: @johanandren, what do you think about the above phrasing?

= Publishing and Subscribing with Actions

A very common use case when building Microservices is to publish and subscribe to a stream of events. 

With Actions you can: 

> * subscribe to events emitted by an entity within the same service.

Reviewer: do we need to clarify that it's also possible to subscribe to state changes from value entities?

Author: yeah, I think so. I will expand.

<5> We do the same for the `ValueDecreased`.
<6> Finally, we have a last method called `IgnoreReset` annotated with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.in`, but not with `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.out`. This mehtod recieves the `ValueReset` and `Empty`. Therefore, events of type `ValueReset` will be handled, but not published to the topic.

=== Implementing the Action

The class `CounterTopicAction` gets generated for us based on the proto file defined above.

[source,protobuf,indent=0]
.src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterTopicAction.java
----
include::example$java-eventsourced-counter/src/main/java/com/example/actions/CounterTopicAction.java[tag=counter-pubsub]
----
<1> We convert the incoming domain event `CounterDomain.ValueIncreased` to the outgoing topic API `CounterTopicApi.Increased`.
<2> We can access the id of the originating entity throught the event subject metadata.
<3> We use the converted object to reply.
<4> Similar code should be written for the decrease method. Omitted here for conciseness. 
<5> Finally, the 'ignoreReset' method is implemented with `effects().noReply()` signaling that it's a noops call.

=== Subscribing and acting

> In example above, an Action is used to consume events from the journal, transform them to some external format and publish them to a topic. Another possible usage for Actions is to consume events and act upon. For example, you may consume events from one entity, transform to commands and send to an another entity or an external system. For that purpose, it's enough to add the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.in` and omit the `(akkaserverless.method).eventing.out`, like we did with the `ignoreReset` method.

Author: Not sure if we need a concrete example here. Maybe we can link to the forward example.
